in today's episode of build your tribe
I'm going to share with you the 10
biggest mistakes that I've made in the
last 30 years as an entrepreneur the
mistakes you need to avoid and these are
important ones so I hope you have a pen
and a piece of paper and I hope you take
this stuff seriously because I can help
you avoid a lot of heartache and a lot
of lost sales lost revenue and get to
where it is you want to go a lot
faster the first mistake that I think I
made was it it took me too long to
really accept and understand the idea
that I need to hire people and that that
would save me money and that it would
save me time I just believed okay I'm I
get it I'm definitely going to hire
people when I can afford to so if you've
ever said that to yourself like I love
to hire people I just can't afford to
right now it's an Act of Faith it's
faith in other people it's faith in
knowing that like
there's only you can be you and you
can't Outsource that so no what it is
that you need to Outsource first and
Outsource sooner than you think it makes
sense to don't wait until you have a
surplus of cash before you start to hire
the faster you hire the quicker you're
going to be able to hire your next
person the number two mistake I want you
to avoid making is failing to Niche down
even further anytime we've had a
business that's struggled anytime I
found myself like looking at what other
people were doing like and saying to
myself I don't understand how come
they're so successful and we're
struggling our thing is better what we
offer is better it was often because I
was trying to appeal to too broad of an
audience that has certainly been kind of
a reoccurring theme in all of the
businesses that we've built my husband
and I and and now Brock and I have built
is realizing that the more we Niche down
even though that's really hard to do and
you feel like if you Niche down even
further you're gonna
disqualify part of your audience or
you're going to alienate part of your
audience it's not true Niche down to the
point that it's almost uncomfortable
number three is to know the difference
between quitting and stepping into
something else I think as
entrepreneurs we've been conditioned to
believe like just never quit you know
believe in your dreams just keep going
persevere don't let anyone talk you out
of it you know people are going to think
you're crazy and and then you're going
to have this breakthrough but there's
also a point at which you just have to
realize like
okay I've got to look at the handwriting
on the wall I've got to look at my
numbers I've got to look at and forecast
what's happening in this industry where
is this industry going where is social
media going where are the trends going
and there's a point at which you have to
realize you're making a foolish Mistake
by continuing on that same path and it's
not quitting if you're smart enough to
realize like okay I need to step into to
a different
direction now oh I know this is kind of
crazy because there is there isn't any
scientific way to know when it's time to
choose different directions cuz I
conversely I know people who have jumped
shipped too soon like they picked a
niche this is perfect example they
picked a niche and then when things
business starts to like not go that
great they're like oh they start to get
nervous and they broaden their focus and
that's never a good idea either so you
you've got to you've got to understand
that how important it is to have all the
information like collect all the
information collect all the data collect
all the research do the market analysis
talk to
wise advisers who will shoot straight
with you and say like I really people
who are smarter than you who've done it
before you who who are not afraid to
sugarcoat it and and to shoot straight
with you and get their honest feedback
and then don't feel like you're quitting
by choosing a different direction
sometimes it's the wisest decision you
can make an example of that would be um
and and sometimes this is really hard so
I push journals I got one right here so
we launched a um and this is a company
that we launched in 2017 I believe uh
for push journals and for the last like
three years I've been watching our sales
decline decline decline I know how much
time I spend designing those covers
working on the marketing Etc and it's
our smallest Business Center and it
continues to get smaller and smaller and
smaller
and you know just out of stubbornness
I'm like it's my baby like I can't get I
want to fight for it like it works for
me so it should work for everybody else
everyone who has ADHD needs one of these
planners but if I'm spending that much
time on something that's making us our
smallest amount of money does that
really make sense does it make me a
quitter if I if I realize like okay I
need
to retire this business or sell this
business because my efforts are better
spent on things that are more profitable
than us or profitable for us that's a
wise decision that doesn't make me a
quitter it makes me someone who wants to
you know work smarter not harder number
four is believing that there are no
shortcuts there are shortcuts there
actually are shortcuts but they're not
what you think they are the shortcuts
are investing in people who've done
it anytime we I have struggled to figure
something out and tried to figure it out
myself that's the slowest way and the
dumbest way possible the things that
have accelerated my career that have
accelerated our businesses the most is
when I have invested in coaches and
programs and I know sometimes coaches
and online courses get a bad rap but
like hello I wouldn't even be here today
if it weren't for coaches and online
courses and seminars I've done facts now
I know they don't work for all people
because not everyone implements but if
you're someone who implements it's a
shortcut for you it literally is the way
that I became a New York Times
bestseller I didn't figure that out
myself I I paid for a course I paid for
a coach on my own YouTube channel uh the
shellene show so right now this is on
build your tribe but for when I wanted
to grow my YouTube channel I hired a
coach and I did video ranking Academy I
did those two things and in one year's
time we went from I think we were like
at
110,000 subscribers and now we're at
like over 300,000 in just one year it
took me over I think like 14 years to
get to 100,000 subscribers and then in
less than a year I added I doubled that
number so the shortcut was investing in
a coach and investing in a
program I know that that sometimes we're
like we think we can figure these things
out ourselves but that's that's the long
way so if you want the shortcut invest
in someone who's already done it the
number five mistake that I've made and I
want you to avoid making is assuming
that no one knows more than you on
anything and I know you're thinking of
like well of course I know that people
know more than me but I bet there's some
particular topic that
you just like me believe like there's no
one who knows as much as me about XYZ
for me I always believe that to be true
about marketing or even writing emails
like writing email copy I just believed
nobody can write email copy the way I
write email copy until we hired someone
who writes email copy a lot better than
I write email copy just never assume
that you're the smartest or you're the
best even if it's that that thing that
you think like that there is no one
there is there's somebody who's better
than you and that's how we keep
upleveling our business and down
regulating the amount of work that we
ourselves are having to do right cuz
again you you don't want to work more
you want to work smarter right you want
to work less and achieve more all right
I'm going to interrupt myself to tell
you that it really does help Brock and I
out so much if you double check and make
sure you're subscribed it also gives you
automatic good parking lot Karma that
means the next time you pull up into
like a busy shopping center and you're
like I'm in such a rush I need to find a
good parking you're going to find a good
parking space it's like guaranteed when
you subscribe to this Channel all right
back to the episode number six is focus
more on your subscriber count then your
follower count follower counts
are they're great but it's your follower
account all that is is a way to get you
should look at your follower account on
whether it's you know whatever social
media platform look at that as a means
by which to figure out what people want
to go deep with you and those are the
people you want to get on your email
list your email list is more than just
like a list this is this is community
this is where we connect this is where
we go deeper this is where we serve this
is where we can have a longer lasting
relationship with people than the
15-second video that they've just swiped
away from I've said this a million times
but I think the biggest mistake most new
entrepreneurs make or or even veteran
entrepreneurs make is that they're
always thinking about social media and
the what you should be thinking about
with social media is like okay what can
I post today that's going to put people
on my on my email list what can I give
people so that they want to give me
their email address because if you want
your business to grow you need your
email list to grow now if you're trying
to figure out what email list to use we
use keep and the build your tribe
podcast is sponsored by keep keep isn't
for everybody it's not for those of you
who aren't yet ready to Outsource
someone to help you build and segment
your list but when you have a strong
email list like with some of the tools
and some of the settings and some of the
templates that we use on keep it's like
a game Cher it's an incredible way to
not just serve our audience but also
like to segment our audience so I'm not
sending the wrong email to the wrong
customer so um if you want to learn more
about about keep there will be a a link
in our show notes but I'm just a big fan
again it's it's not it is not for the
solo prur who is stuck in the mindset
that like you need to figure everything
else everything out yourself if you
think that you have to do that yourself
then keep isn't for you but if you're
someone who's like ready to go to the
next level that's the way to go and I
think that just ties in with number six
it's like you've you've got to think
about your email list before you think
it's so your email list is so much more
important than your social number seven
is to spend whatever time you need and
hire slow hire slow we recently went
through a a job application process for
one of our business businesses uh phase
it up which is it's like a fitness and
diet program specifically geared towards
women who are par menopausal and
menopausal and we went through like a
whole batch of interviews
and um tons and tons and tons of
applicants we boiled it down to the top
two I did the interviews and I'm
like it's neither of these people it's
neither of these people let's go back to
the drawing board now one was better
than the other but I didn't want to
settle so don't settle until you're like
this person is a
gem hire slow it's the most the most
important thing you can do in your
business is hire people who are really
smart and they're really qualified for
the work so they've got the skill set
first and culture second sometimes in
the past I think probably the biggest
mistake that I made is I I hired for C
culture first I'm like oh I really like
this person and we'll teach him how to
do this stuff yeah that that didn't work
out so well the number eight mistake
that I want you to avoid making is to
hire people who just get the job done
versus hiring people who are like no
matter what obstacle I face I will find
a way that's the person you want to hire
don't hire are people who are like just
S I mean you need a couple of soldiers
but you you want people who are problem
solvers I think the success of all of
our businesses is at the moment because
we've learned to hire people who don't
just look at their own Silo of
work they look at the business in its
entirety and aren't afraid to offer
suggestions aren't afraid to find
Solutions and most importantly that they
are excited about finding a way the
absolute worst thing I can hear from
someone is uh yeah we actually can't do
that there's actually no way to do that
or that didn't work out well or like uh
anyone who's like they run into an
obstacle and then they're done that
person doesn't have any room on my team
I want someone who's like there's got to
be a way let's keep researching let's
keep looking there's got to be a way to
make this easier there's got to be a way
to make this better there's got to be a
way to make this more enticing like that
person who's like yeah we've run into an
obstacle but we will find I will find a
way that resourceful person that person
who's like incredibly curious and
creative and like they want to go on a
rabbit hole to figure to figure things
out people who want like to figure
things out those are the best you need
so many of those people on your team
number nine is to remember that the one
thing you can almost never get back is
Trust
so I don't care what the paycheck is in
front of me I don't care what the
opportunity is if it doesn't feel quite
right if it doesn't align with your
ethics if it doesn't allow you to lay
your head down at night and feel like
really really solid about what you've
done then it's the wrong
decision trust is the most important
thing that you
can maintain with your customers and
your
followers and it's the reason why like
when I have a sponsorship or a new
partner I tell them I have to be all the
way honest so if there's something that
I find out about your product or if
there's a competitor who they have
something that I want to tell my
audience about look you I need to be
completely
honest and if uh a sponsor that we're
working with doesn't get that well then
they're not going to work with me like I
I I really think there's nothing more
rare today than someone who's truly
truly honest and isn't just after the
buck and I think it stands out I think
it's it's Unique today I think there's
so many people who now have like a
little bit of cloud or they have some
following and they they realize that
they can make a few bucks and then
they're just obsessed with
everything and you start to lose a sense
of what's
real and what they really
think and that one simple way to stand
out as an entrepreneur as someone who's
maybe an influencer is to know that your
your word your reputation is everything
so never lose the trust of your audience
and the number 10 piece of advice I
would give to
you because I think one of the reasons
why we become entrepreneurs is because
we're just really freaking curious and
creative right like I bet you have like
so many different ideas and so many
things that get you excited and if
that's true and I I don't know if this
is like great advice but it's just what
I've done and it's worked out well for
me so I don't know if it's good advice
for you but it's what I've done and that
is I followed my passion like when I
truly when I lose passion for something
where I'm like h i I can't promote that
I'm not excited about that then I'm
done
and I think you know when people say
like what are you going to do 5 years
from now I'm like I I don't know and I
don't worry about it because it's just
going to land in my lap like God's going
to put put something in front of me that
I'm so excited about that I something
I've been through that like now I know I
can help other people with like at the
moment the one business that I'm the
most excited about it's not marketing
impact Academy I know I'm supposed to
say that I am or it's not even insta
clubhub the thing that I'm like the most
excited most passionate about right now
two things one is my patreon freaking
love it I love you when I say I love it
I mean like I freaking love
my patreon so I really want to grow my
patreon that's a private podcast you can
check it out at uh
patreon.com aalen show and the other
thing I'm like over the moon like
ridiculously obsessed with right now is
helping per menopausal women women who
are haven't gone through menopause yet
like I got to get I got to get to that
36y old woman I got to get to that 41
year old woman who's like la la la la la
I don't want to hear about menopause I'm
too young to hear about that I need to
talk I need to get in front of her and
say like girlfriend
if you can do these things right now
you're going to have such an easier time
when you get to menopause like and and
your doctors aren't giving you the right
information and you you need to know
about hormone replacement therapies you
need to know about the latest science
regarding it you need to know how you
need to change your diet and your
exercise all these things like right now
a girlfriend like can you tell how
excited I am about that yeah and so for
me it's not about like what's going to
make me the most money it's what's going
to bring me the most fire like what puts
fire in my belly and usually the Money
Follows it just
does so I guess my 10th and final
suggestion to you is let your passion
let the thing that you're like so
freaking excited about let that direct
you
but but first we have to make sure that
like the thing that you've started like
you've got that to place where you can
set it and forget it like the only
reason why I've been able to dive into
phase it up and the only reason why I've
been able to like kind of step back a
little bit from insta clubhub or the
marketing impact Academy is
because I built those to a place where
we've got the right people in place
we've got the right systems that are set
up and that gives me a little bit of
leeway a little bit of freedom to be
able to explore something I'm super
passionate about which is uh per
menopause and menopause anyways we'll
put links to that stuff in our show
notes I hope that was helpful for you it
is my goal to be brief to be bright to
make it fun and then be done ladies and
gentlemen we're done I love you see you
soon
[Music]